= polynomial

Website:
* http://adrianomitre.github.com/Polynomial

Repository:
* http://github.com/adrianomitre/Polynomial

== DESCRIPTION:

Rich-featured single and multiple variables polynomials classes for Ruby.

== FEATURES:

* Implements all basic operations (+, -, *, /, quo), plus integral and derivatives.
* Rich, configurable and robust conversion from and to strings.
* Very flexible constructor interface.
* Integration with easy_plot gem for easy plotting.
* Coefficients can be complex numbers.
* Avoid changing coefficients types as much as possible, i.e., does not convert integers or rationals to float unless needed
* Constructors for Legendre, Ultraspherical, and first and second kind Chebyshev polynomials.

== SYNOPSIS:

  foo = Polynomial.new(1, 2) #=> #<Polynomial @coefs=[1, 2]>
  foo.to_s #=> "1 + 2*x"
  foo.plot # open gnuplot window with 'foo' plotted (require EasyPlot gem)
  
  bar = Polynomial.new(3) {|n| n+1 } #=> #<Polynomial @coefs=[1, 2, 3, 4]>
  bar.to_s(:power_symbol=>'^') #=> "1 + 2*x + 3*x^2 + 4*x^3"
  
  require 'rational'
  baz = bar.quo(foo) #=> #<Polynomial @coefs=[Rational(3, 4), Rational(1, 2), Rational(2, 1)]>
  baz.to_s #=> "(3/4) + (1/2)*x"
  
== REQUIREMENTS:

MRI, JRuby or Rubinius as long as RUBY_VERSION >= 1.8.7.

The following gems are soft requirements, i.e., Polynomial can be used without
them, though with slightly reduced functionality:
* [handy_hash](foo/bar.html)
* [easy_plot]

== INSTALL:

* sudo gem install polynomial

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Adriano Mitre

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
